- [Narrator] When building an application
you may come across a scenario
where the validation logic is too complex
for the built in constraints
in the validation API.
In that case,
there is a mechanism we can use
within the bean validation API
to handle these situations.
We're able to build a custom constraint validator
that can handle more advanced logic.
So let's get started building
our own custom constraint validator
and what we're going to do is build a validator
that is able to restrict the manufacturers
to a specific list that we may have.
So nothing out of the box
is going to do that for us.
And to get started with that
we need an annotation
that we're going to apply to our manufacturer field
and it's going to be very similar
to our alphabetic annotation that we created
for the other custom validator.
So I'm just going to copy that
and we can rename it to the
permitted manufacturer
annotation
and this annotation,
if we take a look,
you know it's going to have all the details
of our alphabetic annotation.
So let's go ahead
and we can adjust some of these.
So we'll need to remove that pattern
and then we'll want to create
a new validation message that's returned.
So let's just say it's going to return
the invalid manufacturer property
and we can actually go over
to our properties file
and just enter that right now.
So we can say must be permitted.
Okay, we'll save that.
And then, the other thing we need to specify,
we actually don't have it yet,
and that is the constraint validator.
So the constraint annotation expects us
to provide a class
that implements the constraint validator interface.
So let's go build that
and we're just going to create a new class
within our com.linkedin package
and we're going to name this class
the permitted manufacturer
constraint validator.
And we need this class to
implement the constraint validator interface
that you see selected there.
So let's go ahead,
we'll select that
and then build our class.
And you'll notice there are
two type annotations on that interface
that we need to provide.
The first is the annotation that is going to
indicate that we would like
to use this constraint validator
and that will be the permitted manufacturer annotation.
And then the second generic type argument
is just the type of the value
we're going to be validating.
Once we provide those we can go ahead,
add the unimplemented methods,
and here you see the single method
that we'll need to implement.
IsValid simply returns a boolean true or false
and then these type arguments
are not very well named.
The first will be the value
that we're going to be validating
and the second is the context.
So we're able to get some information
about the actual validation scenario.
And then, what we're going to do
within this constraint validator,
we're going to have an array of strings
that are going to represent our permitted manufacturers.
So we'll just create that
and only two companies are going to be allowed
to supply our products in our catalog.
That's Company A and Company B.
And then what we'll do within our isValid method,
we're going to provide some validation logic.
We can turn our array
into a list
and then simply use the contains method
and see that it contains the value we're validating.
Okay, with that in place,
we need to head back over to our annotation
because we now have the constraint validator
that we can specify within the constraint annotation.
Okay, let's go ahead and save that.
And then the final thing we need to do,
we don't want to forget to add our annotation
to the manufacturer's field.
So we can specify that it needs
to be a permitted manufacturer
and with that in place,
we'll go ahead
and we can run our application.
There we see the server starting up,
got the console.
Let's navigate to the page
and then here we're going to
select the gloves.
Let's say we're trying to source these from Company C,
which isn't permitted,
and
we'll enter a valid date
and a valid description.
So there you can see that Company C is restricted
and let's specify a company that
we do have a valid agreement with,
Company A.
And once we do that
we are able to enter our new gloves into our inventory
for the H Sports Company.
So that was a look
at how we can build a constraint validator
that can contain more advanced logic
if we get into a situation
where an application requires it.